# MSDS_-411_UnsupervisedLearning
Final Project. Unsupervised learning to find hourly utilization using K-means Clustering. 
# Unsupervised K-means clustering algorithm applied to the Call Detail Records (CDRs) dataset-Telecom Italia cellular network-over the city of Milano
The dataset provides information about the telecommunication activity over the city of Milano. The dataset is the result of a computation over the Call Detail Records (CDRs) generated by the Telecom Italia cellular network over the city of Milano that telecom companies capture during Call, SMS, and Internet activity of a customer. CDRs log the user activity for billing purposes and network management. CDRs log the user activity for billing purposes and network management. There are many types of CDRs from the data spource Open Database License (ODbL) Telecommunications - SMS, Call, Internet - MI https://doi.org/10.7910/DVN/EGZHFV .

Square id: The id of the square that is part of the city GRID.
Time interval: The beginning of the time interval expressed as the number of millisecond elapsed from the Unix Epoch on January 1st, 1970 at UTC. The end of the time interval can be obtained by adding 600000 milliseconds (10 minutes) to this value.
Country code: The phone country code of a nation. Depending on the measured activity this value assumes different meanings that are explained later.
SMS-in activity: The activity in terms of received SMS inside the Square id, during the Time interval and sent from the nation identified by the Country code.
SMS-out activity: The activity in terms of sent SMS inside the Square id, during the Time interval and received by the nation identified by the Country code.
Call-in activity: The activity in terms of received calls inside the Square id, during the Time interval and issued from the nation identified by the Country code.
Call-out activity: The activity in terms of issued calls inside the Square id, during the Time interval and received by the nation identified by the Country code.
Internet traffic activity: The activity in terms of performed internet traffic inside the Square id, during the Time interval and by the nation of the users performing the connection identified by the Country code.
Call Detail Record (CDR) is the information captured by the telecom companies during the Call, SMS and Internet activity. This information’s provides insights about the customer needs when it is used with customer demographics. 

Most of the telecom companies using call detail record information in the fraud detection by clustering the user profiles, Customer churn by usage activity and targeting the profitable customers by using RFM analysis.

Data Description:
The datasource used here is daily activity file from dandelion API. These are the CDR records generated by the Telecom Italia cellular network over the city of Milano. Daily CDR activity file contains information for 10000 grids about SMS in and out, Call in and out and internet activity.  CDR activity file contains information for 10, 000 grids about SMS in and out, Call in and out, and Internet activity 

## Introduction
The telecom companies use CDR information for fraud detection by clustering the user profiles, reducing customer churn by usage activity, and targeting the profitable customers by using RFM analysis.

    Received SMS: a CDR is generated each time a user receives an SMS
    Sent SMS: a CDR is generated each time a user sends an SMS
    Incoming Calls: a CDR is generated each time a user receives a call
    Outgoing Calls: CDR is generated each time a user issues a call
    Internet: a CDR is generate each time
        a user starts an internet connection
        a user ends an internet connection
        during the same connection one of the following limits is reached:​
            15 minutes from the last generated CDR
            5 MB from the last generated CDR

By aggregating the aforementioned records it was created this dataset that provides SMSs, calls and Internet traffic activity. It measures the level of interaction of the users with the mobile phone network; for example the higher is the number of SMS sent by the users, the higher is the activity of the sent SMS. Measurements of call and SMS activity have the same scale (therefore are comparable); those referring to Internet traffic do not.
## Business need
clustering of the customer activities for 24 hours by using unsupervised K-means clustering algorithm. It is used to understand segment of customers with respect to their usage by hours.

For example, customer segment with high activity may generate more revenue. Customer segment with high activity in the night hours might be fraud ones.
## Citation

    Barlacchi, G. et al. A multi-source dataset of urban life in the city of Milan and the Province of Trentino. Sci. Data2:150055 doi: 10.1038/sdata.2015.55 (2015)
    Telecom Italia, 2015, "Telecommunications - SMS, Call, Internet - MI", https://doi.org/10.7910/DVN/EGZHFV, Harvard Dataverse, V1
    Telecom Italia, 2015, "Milano Grid", https://doi.org/10.7910/DVN/QJWLFU, Harvard Dataverse, V1


## Dataset

Telecom Italia's data. Recorded in Milano in 2013 november and september. You can download the dataset from [here](https://dandelion.eu/datamine/open-big-data/). It licensed under [ODbL](https://opendatacommons.org/licenses/odbl/).

### Description

From *dandelion.eu*:

> This dataset provides information about the telecommunication activity over the city.
>
> The dataset is the result of a computation over the Call Detail Records (CDRs) generated by the Telecom Italia cellular network over the city. CDRs log the user activity for billing purposes and network management. There are many types of CDRs, for the generation of this dataset we considered those related to the following activities:
>- Received SMS: a CDR is generated each time a user receives an SMS
>- Sent SMS: a CDR is generated each time a user sends an SMS
>- Incoming Calls: a CDR is generated each time a user receives a call
>- Outgoing Calls: CDR is generated each time a user issues a call
>- Internet: a CDR is generate each time
>	- a user starts an internet connection
>	- a user ends an internet connection
>	- during the same connection one of the following limits is reached:​
>		- 15 minutes from the last generated CDR
>		- 5 MB from the last generated CDR
>
> By aggregating the aforementioned records it was created this dataset that provides SMSs, calls and Internet traffic activity. It measures the level of interaction of the users with the mobile phone network; for example the higher is the number of SMS sent by the users, the higher is the activity of the sent SMS. Measurements of call and SMS activity have the same scale (therefore are comparable); those referring to Internet traffic do not.

#### Schema

From *dandelion.eu*:

>1. **Square id**: The id of the square that is part of the city GRID.
>2. **Time interval**: The beginning of the time interval expressed as the number of millisecond elapsed from the Unix Epoch on January 1st, 1970 at UTC. The end of the time interval can be obtained by adding 600000 milliseconds (10 minutes) to this value.
>3. **Country code**: The phone country code of a nation. Depending on the measured activity this value assumes different meanings that are explained later.
>4. **SMS-in activity**: The activity in terms of received SMS inside the Square id, during the Time interval and sent from the nation identified by the Country code.
>5. **SMS-out activity**: The activity in terms of sent SMS inside the Square id, during the Time interval and received by the nation identified by the Country code.
>6. **Call-in activity**: The activity in terms of received calls inside the Square id, during the Time interval and issued from the nation identified by the Country code.
>7. **Call-out activity**: The activity in terms of issued calls inside the Square id, during the Time interval and received by the nation identified by the Country code.
>8. **Internet traffic activity**: The activity in terms of performed internet traffic inside the Square id, during the Time interval and by the nation of the users performing the connection identified by the Country code.

#### File Format

From https://dataverse.harvard.edu/dataset.xhtml?persistentId=doi:10.7910/DVN/EGZHFV 

Each file in the dataset is one 24 hour period. 
